PAAHIBU SPACE

ANNUAL
REPORT
2024
DIGITAL
TRANSFORMATION
IN PRACTICE
SUSTAINABLE IMPACT
SCALABLE PROGRAMS
COMMUNITY
RESILIENCE & INNOVATION

PAAHIBU SPACE

TABLE OF
CONTENTS

MSME SPOTLIGHT
ADVOCACY
ENGAGEMENT
HOW HANDS-ON
LEARNING
BRIDGES SKILLS
GAPS
SPOTLIGHT
PROGRAMS

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

WELCOME
MESSAGE

2

ABOUT PAAHIBU SPACE

3

IMPACT
HIGHLIGHTS
ALUMNAE
SPOTLIGHT
PROGRESS OF
WiDEI & WiDiB
INITIATIVES

12
13
15
16

SERVICES

17

JOIN OUR
COMMUNITY

18

4
6
10

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

MESSAGE FROM OUR
DIRECTOR
CO-CREATING SOLUTIONS, DELIVERING IMPACT
2024 has been about pushing for impactful change and making sure
our work reflects the realities happening in our communities. It has
been one of growth, resilience, and impactful change, reaffirming our
commitment to empowering women, girls, and young entrepreneurs
through technology, education, advocacy and entrepreneurship.

We want to celebrate our collective achievements this year
at Paahibu Space, our strategic board, talented team, valued
partners and supporters, our dedicated interns, ambassadors
and volunteers and everyone who contributed to the growth
and influence of what we do at Paahibu Space.
We have made significant strides in greater transparency and
in our initiatives such as the TechsiStars Mentorship Program,
Women in Digital Business Initiative, Women in Digital
Economy Initiative, GROW.
Additionally, we have fostered accountability and
transparency by ensuring that our team including volunteers
and partners have clear and active responsibilities and
expectations, strengthening our team coordination and
partnership engagements. These milestones demonstrate
the power of our teamwork and commitment to excellence.
This year has been about pushing for impactful change and
making sure our work as a tech and entrepreneurship
development organization, reflects the realities happening in
our communities. In 2024, we worked alongside other
partners to navigate key priorities like STEM Education for
girls and women, Digital Business Transformation for Female
Entrepreneurs, Tech careers and Professional Development,
Online Safety for Women and Girls, Women and the Creative
Economy, Women and Finance, Equity and Inclusion while
ensuring critical process improvements in our programmes.
Despite the challenges, we remained steadfast in our
mission, developing local solutions and talents, building
skills, and fostering inclusive opportunities. In 2025, we look
forward to launching new projects, strengthening
partnerships, sustaining our influence, and deepening our
engagement with the community. We will continue to work
collaboratively with individuals and organizations to build an
inclusive and vibrant ecosystem that empowers individuals
and communities to increase their agency, voice, resilience,
and sustained improvement in the quality of their lives and
communities.

Hiqmat Sungdeme Saani
Director

page 0 2

Paahibu Space Annual Report

PAAHIBU SPACE

ABOUT
PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

Support (Business + Education + Skills + Capacity + Resources)
= High Impact Entrepreneurs and Leaders
WHAT WE DO

ABOUT US
Paahibu Space is a technology, education, and
entrepreneurship development organization
designned and committed to providing digital
solutions to businesses and non-profits while
educating and equipping women-onwed
businesess and girls with the skills to leverage
technonogy for business and career growth,
creating pathways for educational access,
leadership and economic independence. As an
innovation hub based in Ghana, we empower
girls and women in STEM and entrepreneurship
to transform local challenges into solutions
that contibute to global impact . We build a
safe, inclusive,enabling environment for all
individuals to gain economic empowerment and
educational access. Over the years, Paahibu
Space has supported more than 500 womenowned small businesses through business
development support, over 1,000 individuals
through technology and career development
training, and 62 communities in advocacy
campaigns, reaching 10,000 girls and women.

We support girls and young women in STEAM
leadership, female entrepreneurs and womenowned SMEs by offering capacity-building,
education and skill development programs,
technology access, and a collaborative
community. We equip women-owned
businesses and girls with the skills, networks,
and resources needed for measurable growth.
We offer:

Capacity-Building Programs
Access to Technology
A Collaborative Community
Business Development Opportunities
Networking Opportunities
• Research, Advocacy & Policy-Influencing

Paahibu Space Annual Report

page 0 3

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

IMPACT HIGHLIGHTS
This past year, we were driven by a profound understanding that our work goes beyond
simply delivering services and/or programmes. It's about making a sustained positive
difference in the lives of individuals and communities. We believe in the power of human
connection and the transformative potential of meaningful engagement. Our focus has
been on building strong relationships, fostering trust, and empowering others to reach
their full potential. We believe that by working together, we can achieve extraordinary
things. We are grateful for the dedication of our team, the unwavering support of our
partners, and the resilience of the communities we work with and for.

Learning Activities

450+

Experiences that foster active participation,
critical thinking, and meaningful application
of knowledge

Mentorship & Koffee konnection Hours
Personalised guidance and feedback that defines
goals, fosters growth, and provides support for
career, personal and business development

70+

MSMEs & Professionals Trained
Technical and soft skills development and
business development for entrepreneurs,
startups, and career-focused individuals

150+

Community Events & Advocacy
Activities and gatherings that bring
people together to celebrate, learn,
connect and influence

9+

DID YOU KNOW?
Paahibu Space embeds mental wellbeing, Environmental
Sustainability and GESI (gender, equality, and social
inclusion) training and support into all of its education,
entrepreneurship, technology, advocacy and leadership
programs.

page 0 4

Paahibu Space Annual Report

100%

50%

Participation in
GESI Trainings
and Mental
Wellbeing Session

Entrepreneurs
Formed
Partnerships with
Other Companies

ALUMNAE
SPOTLIGHT

ADENIKE OWOEYE
Backend Developer

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

My journey as a Backend Developer at
ReCreax started the day I joined the
TechsiStars Mentorship Program at Paahibu
Space. I was truly blessed with an incredible
mentor whose guidance, experience, and
encouragement made all the difference.
Without her, I wouldn’t be where I am today.
The weekly talk series during the program
opened up a new world for me, developing
essential soft skills like communication,
personal branding, and building meaningful
connections. It wasn’t just about coding, it was
about becoming a well-rounded professional. I
am forever grateful to Paahibu Space for
believing in my potential and giving me the
confidence to believe in myself.

Connect with her: Adenike Owoeye

FAUZIA KATALI
UX Research Intern

I’ve always wanted to be in the tech space, but as a
Political Science student at the University of Ghana, I
didn’t know where to begin. Tech felt so far from
what I was studying. Everything changed when a
friend introduced me to Paahibu Space and the
TechsiStars Mentorship Program. Even though I
joined the program late, I was paired with a mentor
whose experience, patience, and network in UI/UX
Design made the learning process smooth and
inspiring.
From knowing nothing about design to confidently
navigating Figma and creating designs, it’s been a
truly exciting journey. I never thought I could learn
these skills, especially coming from a non-tech
background. The mentorship gave me not just
technical skills but also the confidence to believe I
belong in this space.
Now, I’m building on what I learned as a UX Research
Intern at Paahibu Space, and I’m excited to keep
growing in the tech field. Paahibu Space didn’t just
give me an opportunity, it gave me a whole new path I
never thought was possible.

Connect with her: Fauzia Katali Yakubu

Paahibu Space Annual Report

page 0 6

ALUMNAE
SPOTLIGHT

JULIE RADOL
Tech Law & Litigation Intern

POULA ANEK
Data Entry Intern

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

As a legal consultant passionate about online
safety, the TechsiStars Mentorship Program
by Paahibu Space came at the perfect time. I
was paired with a certified cybersecurity
professional who also shares relevant
content on online safety on her socials, and
our connection made the learning journey
easy and impactful. The mental health
sessions stood out, helping me find solidarity
along the way. Today, I’m fully practicing
Tech Law and deepening my advocacy for
safe online spaces, especially for women and
girls. The Paahibu Space TechsiStars
Mentorship Program truly supports every
path, be it advocacy,
entrepreneurship,careee or personal growth.
Connect with her: Julie Radol

As someone passionate about gender justice, I’ve
always advocated for women and girls in marginalized
communities. But despite my work, I felt left behind in
digital spaces. Every time I found myself in rooms where
others discussed tech, I felt intimidated because I
lacked those skills.
Joining the TechsiStars Mentorship Program changed
everything. In just four months, I gained practical skills
like effective writing and communication, creating
impactful handbooks, and mastering tools like
Microsoft Excel and PowerPoint for engaging
presentations. I also learned how to use social media to
promote my crocheting business, which I’m so proud of.
The biggest win for me was right after the program, my
mentor supported me in landing a 6-month remote
data entry contract, something I never thought I could
achieve before. I’m now a more confident, tech-savvy
advocate who’s ready to drive real change.
To any girl out there wondering if tech is for her, Paahibu
Space has the right opportunities waiting for you. It’s
truly been a life-changing experience for me.

Connect with her: Poula Anek

Paahibu Space Annual Report

page 0 7

ALUMNAE
SPOTLIGHT

HABIBA MUHAMMED
Founder, HAMS Designs

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

Hi, I'm a 17 year old from Nigeria. I’ve always loved
writing poems, short stories, and motivational speeches,
but I never thought I could turn my creativity into a
business. Everything changed when I came across
Paahibu Space on social media. I joined their tech
community and later applied for the TechsiStars
Mentorship Program. That’s where my journey truly
began. My mentor helped me see how my creative
writing could become content creation. I’ll never forget
the excitement I felt when I learned how to use LinkedIn
and shared my first spoken word poem video. My mentor
also introduced me to graphic design and connected me
with other creatives. In just four months, I went from
knowing nothing about entrepreneurship to running my
own business, HAMS Designs, where I create graphic
content for clients.
Today, I’ve completed high school and I’m proudly
running my business. Paahibu Space continues to provide
me the skills, confidence to dream bigger and the tools
to build something of my own. Now, I’m exploring even
more opportunities in entrepreneurship.

Connect with her: Habiba Muhammed

Before joining the TechsiStars Mentorship
Program, I thought that being in tech was all
about sitting behind my laptop and coding. But
this program completely changed my
perspective.
I discovered that soft skills like public speaking
and networking are just as essential to thrive in
the tech industry. The mentorship also helped
me realize how I could leverage my network to
create opportunities for myself.

RUBY YEBOAH
Data Security Analyst

The journey was truly eye-opening, and today,
I’m proud to be working remotely from Ghana
as an intern with a Kenyan-based tech
company. Thanks to Paahibu Space, I now see
tech as a space where my voice, connections,
and skills are all important.
Connect with her: Ruby Yeboah

Paahibu Space Annual Report

page 0 8

ALUMNAE
SPOTLIGHT

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

As a student at a College of Health in Ghana,
I never knew that technology and health
could intersect, until I joined the TechsiStars
Mentorship Program.
Initially, I was drawn to graphic design, but
through the mentorship, I discovered a deep
interest in health tech. Now, I’m learning
more about how technology can address
healthcare challenges, especially those
affecting women.

HAJERI SEIDU
Health Tech Enthusiat

My mentor has been incredibly supportive,
guiding me as I gain skills in health research.
Thanks to Paahibu Space, I now see a future
where I can combine my passion for
healthcare with technology to make a real
impact.

Honestly, when I joined the TechsiStars
Mentorship Program, I had no clear goal in
mind. But the program’s holistic approach
helped me discover a strong interest in data
analytics. I was later paired with a mentor who
is an AI Natural Language and Data Analytics
expert, and that made all the difference.
The four-month journey was truly rewarding, I
didn’t just learn about technology, I learned
how to carve a niche for myself. Now, I’m
building on my data analytics skills from the
program because I’m determined to become a
social media content analyst.

ELSIE AMOAH
Data Analytics Enthusiat

Thanks to Paahibu Space, I found a path I
didn’t even know I was looking for
Connect with her: Elsie Amoah

Paahibu Space Annual Report

page 0 9

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

PROGRESS OF
WOMEN IN DIGITAL ECONOMY
INITIATIVE-WIDEI
Understanding the Digital Landscape

According to World Bank, while Africa’s women entrepreneurs and MSMEs contribute
immensely to the economies of the continent, many MSMEs especially those led by women
in the informal sector struggle to formalise their businesses, access funding, compete and
scale their operations due to lack of technology access, inadequate digital literacy programs,
supportive networks and inadequate access to information. This gap is where Paahibu Space
plays a pivotal role by delivering targeted, hands-on training and coaching to help these
entrepreneurs sharpen their strategies, strengthen their business operations and prepare
for expansion in a digitally-evolving world. Paahibu Space focused on refining key aspects of
these entrepreneurs’ business journeys. Tailored capacity-building sessions have been
designed to help them: • Improve their business strategies • Enhance financial management •
Develop operational plans suited to the unique needs of Africa’s MSMEs ecosystem This
year, Paahibu Space has supported several small businesses, including Sheady Enterprise, a
Ghanaian beauty brand celebrating African heritage through refining shea butter intp
beauty products such as body lotion, shower gel etcs, and Divine Apparel, a fashion brand
that specializes in quality men's wears . Both businesses are focusing on key milestones in
2025, including:
• Accelerated business growth • Expanded networks and partnerships • Launching innovative
products and services
Entrepreneurs in the informal sector drive innovation and can build sustainable pathways to
success through targeted business development support from trainings and mentors. If you
have a snall business, follow Paahibu Space to learn more about upcoming programs that
may include access to resources, including business advisory and funding.

Paahibu Space Annual Report

page 1 0

MSME
SPOTLIGHT

Sherifa Fuseini
CEO

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

"Before joining the WiDEI & WiDiB trainings by
Paahibu Space, managing Sheady Enterprise was
challenging. My business focuses on refining Shea
butter into amazing products like body butters,
hair oils, and other organic products.
The training completely transformed how I run my
business. I learned to manage operations
efficiently using digital tools and even started
designing my own business flyers, saving costs I
used to spend on hiring designers.
Since then, I’ve acquired new customers and
significantly improved my business branding,
marketing, and operations. Thanks to Paahibu
Space and the WiDEI & WiDiB Initiative, Sheady
Enterprise is now thriving and reaching more
people than ever before."

Shop here: Sheady Enterprise

DIVINE APPAREL

Vivian Ackon
CEO

page 1 2

Paahibu Space Annual Report

"Divine Apparel specializes in quality men's
wears. It was borne during my participation in
the WiDiB & WiDEI programs. The training
helped me to create a business plan that
guides our operations. With Paahibu Space’s
support, we branded, including a new logo, and
gained digital marketing, storytelling,
branding and customer engagement skills
which have helped transformed how we connect
with clients. We’ve since enhanced our online
presence and now offer personalized
engravings on items like belts, watches, and
wallets, adding a special touch for our
customers."

Shop here: Divine Apparel

ADVOCACY

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

689 STUDENTS
In 2024, Paahibu Space’s advocacy work went beyond conversations, transforming ideas into actions that
empower women and girls to thrive in digital, creative, and green economies.
Our online safety initiatives addressed the growing threats faced by women in digital spaces. Through
community-driven projects and strategic partnerships, we created safe online ecosystems where over 5,000
women and girls learned how to navigate and protect themselves from digital risks. From digital literacy
workshops to cybersecurity mentorship, these efforts are ensuring that the next generation of women leaders
can engage with technology confidently and securely.
The Paahipogba Campaign, launched on International Women’s Day 2024, redefined what leadership in
technology looks like. By spotlighting groundbreaking women-led tech companies and innovations disrupting
industries, we not only celebrated achievements but also inspired young women to break barriers. These stories
of women revolutionizing business and organizational practices continue to fuel the aspirations of many who
now see themselves as part of the tech revolution.
With climate change disproportionately affecting women, Paahibu Space introduced the Green Artivism
Program, merging art, advocacy, and environmental sustainability. This program empowered women and girls to
identify environmental issues in their communities and use creative expressions, digital illustrations,
storytelling, and visual art, to propose solutions. Beyond advocacy, Green Artivism unlocked pathways into the
creative and digital economies, turning environmental action into sustainable economic opportunities.
Each of these initiatives reflects Paahibu Space’s belief that advocacy is most powerful when it drives
transformation. From safeguarding digital spaces to redefining leadership in tech and turning climate challenges
into creative opportunities, Paahibu Space remains at the forefront of shaping inclusive, resilient communities.

page 1 3

Paahibu Space Annual Report

PAAHIBU SPACE

HOW MENTORSHIP
BRIDGES SKILLS GAPS

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

Insights From the TECHSISTARS MENTORSHIP
Program
Breaking into the tech industry can be
challenging, especially for women in
Ghana, who face unique barriers to
entry. However, the right opportunities
and support can transform these
challenges into stepping stones. The
"TECHSISTARS MENTORSHIP"
program is doing just that — giving
young women the skills, support and
networks to thrive in the tech Industry.

Traditional education and skills
training alone may not be
enough to keep up in a world
where technology is fast
evolving.
The “TECHSISTARS MENTORSHIP” Program
is a curriculum beyond textbooks and
existing mentorship programs. Participants
learn theories beyond web development,
data analytics, software development, social
media management, and graphic design.
They apply these lessons in hands-on
projects that mirror real-world challenges.
After 4 months of intensive training, soft
skills building sessions and mentoring
relationships, participants enter a threemonth internship ( for those interested in
career opportunities) and apprenticeship (
those who want to set up businesses) in tech
environments. This combination of learning
and practical experience helps solidify their
skills, build confidence, and prepare them for
the demands of the industry.
Stay tuned for updates, upcoming
registrations and more tech and
entrepreneurship opportunities.

page 1 5

Paahibu Space Annual Report

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

SPOTLIGHT
PROGRAMS
TechsiStars Mentorship
This program designed with through a
co-creation process with over 120 girls
and young women interested in tech
and entrepreneurship, and supported
30 women with hands-on, intensive
learning and mentorship experience
that focused on technical and soft skills
development in computer and digital
literacy, networking, leadership and
entrepreneurship development.

WiDiB Initiative
This 5-week virtual program is designed to
structure women-owned MSMEs, social impact
initiatives and female freelancers in Africa's
business and entrepreneurial sector. It
provides small businesses, social impact
initiatives and freelancers with knowledge
and skills on how to leverage digital tools and
support services to address challenges in
operations, product/service development,
career advancement and team structuring.
This year, the program supported 150
entrepreneurs and freelancers from Ghana.

Women in Digital Economy
Initiative - WiDEI
WiDEI empowers small businesses and
community-led development initiatives
owned by rural and marginalized women to
build and scale sustainable ventures by
enhancing operations, accessing financial
resources and knowledge, digital tools and a
nurturing inclusive network, creating
opportunities for women to participate and
contribute actively to the digital economy as
equal creators and consumers of technology.
Paahibu Space Annual Report

page 1 6

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

SERVICES
Digital Solutions &
Business Consulting
We provide top-notch digital and software solutions
to MSMEs businesses in the informal sector and nonprofits to streamline their operations, increase their
visibility and boost their growth. We also provide
pitch deck preparation, business model canvas
development, business development consultations,
micro-credit services and strategy development.
MSMEs gain access to experienced mentors and
advisory services to guide their growth and success.

TRAINING AND
CAPACITY BUILDING
We offer a variety of skill development
programs, workshops, and seminars designed
to assist entrepreneurs and organisations with
the knowledge and tools needed to succeed. The
training focuses on strengthening skills,
fostering innovation, and building leadership
capacity to drive sustainable growth. We help
entrepreneurs and organisations address various
business challenges and promote professional
growth.

Research, Policy, and
Innovation
At Paahibu Space, we understand the importance of
evidence-based programming, policy-influencing
and innovation. We therefore offer stakeholders
and governmnets the following services:
Research on Online Safety & Digital Inclusion
Offering recommendations to governments and
stakeholders on enhancing digital transformation
Spaces where young people can explore innovative
solutions to community challenges using technology.

page 1 7

Paahibu Space Annual Report

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

JOIN OUR COMMUNITY

Volunteer as a mentor,
community ambassador,
intern, associate or support
our community programs.

VOLUNTEER

Commitment: 1-3 hours
a month

Provide valuable
opportunities for
professionals advancing or
OFFER AN entering industry
2 weeks, 1
INTERNSHIP Placements:
month, 3 months, 6 months,
1 year

SPONSOR
A CHILD

Sponsor a child learning
STEM through our Big Deal
Fund and social enterprise
in Ghana

PAAHIBU SPACE

ACCESS • INNOVATE • TRANSFORM

2024

ANNUAL
REPORT
+233 24 725 4326
info@paahibuspace.org
www.paahibuspace.org
@ipaahibuspace

